
# CSD3210-TP-Team19
**Group Members:** <br>
1. Zhuo Yijian (2001237)<br>
2. Noel Ho Sing Nam (2000677)<br>
3. Wang Nian Jing, Ryan (2000571)<br>
4. Lim Min Ye (2001477)<br>
5. Quah Joon Hui Conant (2002655)<br>
6. Tan Egi (2002777)
7. Zandra Phua Si-Yu (2002510)
8. Tan Wei Wen (2002514)

## Agenda
- <a href="#software_architecture">Software Architecture</a>
- <a href="#dependencies_required">Dependencies required</a>
- <a href="#build_project">Build project</a>
    - <a href="#development">For Development</a>
    - <a href="#release">For Release</a>
 - <a href="#video_link">Video Link</a>
- <a href="#instructions">Instructions for WebXR</a>
- <a href="#credits">Credits</a>

<div id='software_architecture'></div>

## Software Architecture
**Overview:** Creating an arcade sports VR application software for users to enjoy an arcade like experience anywhere and anytime.

**Description:** Our team project consist of replicating an sport arcade environment where players are able to experience throwing a basketball or a bowling ball in its respective environment.

-  `assets` folder - contains auxiliary models and videos for the purpose for this assignment.
    
-  `dist` folder contains html and js files that are automatically generated by the webpack.

 - `public/assets` - contains all the textures, videos, sounds and models in this project

-  `Source folder (src)` - contains all manually-written source code that handles the implementation for this project.
   
	-  `src/Component folder` - contains all the different class object that can be created in BabylonJS such as text plane. This is done for easier creation of object instead of having repeated codes.
    
-  `.gitignore` is for ignoring certain files when committing to source control. The `node_modules` folder is ignored and the next section details how to get the relevant dependcies for setting up the web app.
    
-  `package.json` is the JSON file listing the details of this project and its dependencies along with scripts that could be run through npm.
    
-  `README.md` is this file you are reading.
    
-  `tsconfig.json` is the configuration file for transpiling from written TS code into JS code.
    
-  `webpack.config.js` is the configuration file for the webpack.

<hr>

<div id='dependencies_required'></div>

## Dependencies required
<mark>To download everything</mark> that is needed, run `npm install` in the terminal (Powershell).

To download the packages individually, refer below.

1. **NPM (Node Package Manager)** - A command line tool use for installing, updating, or uninstalling Node.js packages. It can be installed through the command console, using this line: `npm install -g npm`

2. **Node.js** - Allows us to run JavaScript code without using the browser. Node.js will be `installed along with NPM`.

3. **Babylon.js** - A is a WebGL-based 3D engine that has tools to create, display, and texture meshes in space, and add light sources and cameras. It can be installed through the command console, using this line: `npm install --save babylonjs babylonjs-materials babylonjs-gui babylongjs-loaders`
4. **Webpack, webpack-cli, webpack-dev-server, html-webpack-plugin** - A static module bundler used for JavaScript applications. It transforms front-end assets such as HTML, CSS and images into valid modules. They can be installed through the command console, using this line: 
`npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli webpack-dev-server html-webpack-plugin copy-webpack-plugin`

5. **Typescript, ts-loader** - A strict syntactical superset of JavaScript and adds optional static typing to the language. They can be installed through the command console, using this line: `npm install --save-dev typescript ts-loader`

6. **Cannon.js** - A physics engine that has rigid body. It can detect simple collision, various body shapes, contacts, friction and constraints. It can be installed through the command console using this line: `npm install --save cannon`
7. **CopyWebpackPlugin** - A plugin that copies individual files or entire directories to the build directory. It can be installed through the command console using this line: `npm install copy-webpack-plugin --save-dev`
<hr>

<div id='build_project'></div>

## Build project 
<div id='development'></div>

### For Development
For every changes made to the project, the project will be rebuilt and the changes will be reflected on the website.

1. Make sure that the directory is in base development folder 'BabylonJS'
2. Run this command in the terminal `npm run serve`
2. Open chrome and go to 'localhost:[portNo.]'

<div id='release'></div>

### For Release
This is for distributing the project to others.

1. Open a new terminal
2. From the base project path (inside BabylonJS), run the command on terminal:
    - `cd dist`
    - `python -m http.server`
3. Open chrome and go to 'localhost:[portNo.]'

*[Side Note: Download python here: https://www.python.org/downloads]*
<hr>

<div id='video_link'></div>

## Video link
`<insert video link here>`

<hr>

<div id='instructions'></div>

## Instructions for WebXR:
Application was tested in Meta Quest 2.

Follow the instructions in <a href="#release">Build project for Release</a> for setup of project before testing the interactions.

 1. Look around
 >To look around, simply turn your head around while wearing the Meta Quest 2 headset.
 2. Grabbing
 >To grab an object, move close to the object and reach out to the object with the Meta Quest 2 controller, then hold the trigger to grab the object.
 3. Release
 >To let go of the object, release the trigger.
 4. Throwing
 >Swing your arm and release the Grab Button to throw the ball
 5. Spawning
 >Press the Trigger Button when the pointer is pointed at a ball spawner to spawn a ball
 6. Movement
 >Point the Meta Quest 2 controller at the floor and old the tTrigger for 2 seconds. You will then teleport to that location. **Note that you will always snap to a certain height above the floora

<br>

<hr>

<div id='credits'></div>

## Credits:

- Bowling environment & mechanics:
	- Conant
	- Yi Jian
	- Noel

- Basketball environment & mechanics:
	- Min Ye
	- Wei Wen
	- Ryan 

- Documentation, User Evaluation, User Testing Questionnaire: 
	- Egi
	- Zandra